The Joe Rogan experience. And I love the fact.
By the way that you said that you don't modulator who you bring on. So,
and let me, let me share my own personal experience.
I was just contacted a few days ago, and if she's listening now, I'm sorry.
If I haven't responded yet, I will.
I was contacted by a very famous former porn star.
I won't mention her name. I didn't actually know her work,
but I have since gone and done my research on her. And, uh,
uh, and if my wife is listening, it was completely for research purposes.
Uh, and so anyways, so, so I, she reached out to me and said, Hey,
would you come on my show? You know, I'm a fan. Now,
if I were the typical academic,
I would be doing all sorts of machinations in my head and calculation as well.
Is it good for my brand to be speaking to a porn star?
Doesn't it make me look less professor Ariel? And actually, I,
it never even entered my mind.
I saw that she had a sufficiently large platform that she was certainly an
intelligent person, and I'm very likely to reply to her and say, Hey, let's,
let's do it. So, and I think that comes across with you. There's no pretense.
Let's just sit down and have conversations with interesting people. Of course,
in my case, my show is infinitely smaller than yours,
but it's been successful within my sphere for, I think,
similar reasons to why yours has been so successful.
The porn star thing is very interesting because people avoid even the topic
of porn, but yet, clearly a lot of people are watching it.
And a good example, and I don't mean to throw this guy under the bus is the, uh,
the journalist from the new Yorker who, uh,
unfortunately it was on a zoom call recently and thought he had muted his video
and did not. And why was,
why was it work on the zoom call decided to start masturbating and.
Didn't know that Jeffrey Toobin.
I wasn't going to say his name.
I just want to say that you said his name and not me. I,
I feel terrible for the man, because first of all, because I,
I know that's going to sound crazy, but I do. And I know, uh,
there are many men who.
You're married. So of course you. Well.
I, even before I was married, I masturbated. I'm going to be honest with you.
Um, I am a lifelong masturbator. I think I discovered it, uh,
in my teenage years. And I've been a, uh, an avid pursuer of it ever since.
I think it's a clarity device, but it's also, I mean, in terms of like,
when you get horny, you get very confused,
like men who are horny have one thing on their mind. And it's a,
it's a good tool to eliminate that one thing from your mind. And you could look,
uh, you don't want to be fixated by something. If you're hungry, you should eat.
You know, you don't want to be just like starving all day. Just eat if you.
I'm sorry, go ahead. Go ahead.
But my point is we all sort of want to pretend that we're
not doing that. It's very straight, like intellectually.
We all know that we do it. We, everyone knows we do it.
Everyone does it pretty much everyone does it, but when you discuss it,
people like, oh, they roll their eyes. They pull their head. It's not a shame.
It's a very strange thing we have biological needs.
And if you don't attend to these biological needs,
I believe that you can have very confusing motives and people that are
excessively horny. They they're distracted.
It's not healthy. Two Seinfeld references that speak exactly to that point.
You ready?
So the first one is actually one that I discussed in my first book,
my 2007 book, the evolutionary basis of consumption,
where I was talking about how you can analyze cultural products, including,
you know, sitcom themes via an evolutionary lens.
And so I take the example of the classic episode from Seinfeld,
a master of my domain, right, where
the master of my domain, of course is a euphemism for, uh, who could, uh,
withstand their masturbatory urges the longest. And then I say, well,
let's analyze that plot line of that particular show from an evolutionary
perspective. And so the first thing you might remember is that, you know,
there are three male characters and one female, one,
they all recognize that she has to put in more money into the,
into the pop that the better,
because it isn't as difficult for women to resist their master masturbatory
urges. So that was the first point. Uh,
then as each one was losing the bad meaning they were succumbing to their
massive authority urges.
It's interesting to look at what was the trigger that caused them to lose the
bed. So in the case of Kramer it's because he is seeing a gorgeous young
woman, uh, scantily clad,
doing all sorts of sexy positions as she's exercising.
So what triggered him to was the visual imagery,
whereas when it came to Elaine losing the bed,
it's because she fantasized about becoming the long-term
partner, the wife of John F. Kennedy Jr. Right. And she wasn't, she wasn't,
she wasn't masturbating over the cabana boy who was 18 years old with a nice.
And so that spoke to the differences in terms of the content of the
fantasies of men and women. And then the second point I want to make, uh,
that is also from Seinfeld is there's an episode where George decides
to forego sex.
And by freeing his mind from having to focus on sex,
he starts learning a whole bunch of new languages and he's solving chemistry
equation problems because he,
99% of his brain is no longer focused on, you know, sex.
And so there you go. Yeah.
That's, that's a real issue with people. Uh, but again,
discussing porn or especially having a conversation with someone who
participates in the, the actual production and acting in,
I'll say acting with air quotes, it's, uh, it's forbidden,
it's taboo. It's, it's, it's, uh, you,
you get looked down upon for some very bizarre reason that probably has to do
with our puritanical shame.
The app. I'm not sure if we've discussed this before, but even if we have,
I think it's worth repeating. It's probably many years ago that we discussed it.
So in, in one of my other books, I talk about the, you know,
evolutionary explanation of pornography. And I specifically talk about, uh,
porn that is directed at heterosexual males.
So typically you might think that because men are interested in sleeping with,
you know, many women,
that pornography is going to have one man sleeping with multiple
women in a particular scene, right. And that's called polygyny one man,
many women. Whereas actually the study has been done scientific study.
It turns out that there's a lot more what's called polyandrous depictions in
porn polyandry is one woman with multiple men.
So why is it that porn directed to heterosexual?
Men has a lot more scenes with one woman having
sex with multiple men. And there,
it turns out that the explanation comes from something called a sperm
competition hypothesis. The idea being that, uh,
men and actually males in many species get a rise literally,
and seeing other men having sex. So for example,
when you are trying to get a stud,
let's say a horse or a dog to mate with a female,
you often will make him watch another male having sex,
and that will get the rise out of him. And so there's some really interesting,
uh, scientific ways by which you could study a product like pornography,
which of course is one of the most, you know,
the products that we spend the most money on.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking you to just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.